# HousingPricePrediction
Predict house prices using Ames dataset.

This is a first attempt at using the Ames dataset, as accessed from Kaggle, to predict housing prices.  The dataset comprises a mixture of numerical, as well as nominal and ordinal categorical data.  The XGBoost regressor was implemented.

For purposes of model validation, validation and learning curves were plotted.  The validation curves vary the number of estimators and the learning rate, and plot the resulting accuracies of the training set and validation set resulting from 5-fold cross-validation.  These are subsets of the full dataset provided in the 'train.csv' file (75% training, 25% validation).  n_estimators=150 and learning_rate=0.11 yielded best results.  The model suffers from low accuracy, as apparent from a plateauing in the learning curve and validation curves at ~80% for the validation curves.  Additionally, there is significant overfitting, as indicated by the wide gap between the training and validation curves in all plots.

A plot of the residuals shows no discernable pattern, indicating relationships between individual features and the target have been accounted for in the model.  The mean absolute error and r^2 values for the training set were $7706 and 0.98, respectively, whereas the same values for the validation set were $23194 and 0.78, respectively.  Hopefully, prudent selection of appropriate features will improve model performance.  Also, it was noted that the scikit-learn OrdinalEncoder yielded Unknown categories errors, and the only workaround was to delete the offending labels, which is less than ideal.  This may have contributed to the poor model performance.
